SavageEd Documentation

*note this program is currently in beta testing

*note to SavageEd users, some of the familiar features form SavageEd
 have a different behavior in SavageEd.

Requirements and further notes:
	-This program may or may not be distributed with documents
	and source.  The only required file is "SavageEd.exe"
	-Reading anything beyond this point is optional.
	-Some options may require other files to be present, but
	2 will function without them.
	-There is no installation.  SavageEd does not write to the
	evil registry.  SavageEd does not read from the evil registry.
	-At this time, SavageEd does not access the internet, so beware
	of spooky versions that try to access the internet, I didn't write them.
	-SavageEd will create a "SavageEd.ini" file in the same directory.
	This file will store all the user selected settings and options.

Change Log
11/27/2010 7:07:47 PM
	0.02.00 - fixed Save As not renameing properly
	        - added Set Tabs option
	0.01.00 - first public beta release of SavageEd
	0.3.0	- new versioning system
			- fixed window drifting


Disclaimer:
This software is open source freeware written in a high level assembly
language (HLA).
The author takes no responsibility for the use or misuse of this software
or any damages real, implied or imagined in any form.
It may be re-distributed in whole or in part, with or without sources
bundled or stand alone.


Most basic functions you would expect in Notepad.exe
are included in SavageEd.  This short documentation
will cover only items that may differ.

File Menu > New Window
	This menu option executes another instance of SavageEd.
	The new window will be offset slightly from the current window.

*warning: any new window will have it's own copy of the same
configuration file "SavageEd.ini" - any changes made to options,
recent documents, positions, fonts, colors, etc will be saved
based on the *last* SavageEd window that you close.

If you want to maintain several different settings, you'll need
to have multiple copies of SavageEd in different directories.


Edit > Find/Replace
	This opens a find/replace dialog that allows searching and replacing.
	Options set in find/replace dialog are saved in the configuration file.
	There is the added option of "Whole Word".
	There is a built in quick find feature:
	  Pressing F3 without opening find/replace
	  dialog will find the next instance of the selected word.

SavageEd has a pattern finding feature which behaves somewhat different
from standard find/replace.  Some things to consider:
	To search for patterns, select the "Match Pattern" check box.
	Pattern searches only works in the 'down' direction
	Pattern searches do not work with whole word option.
	Pattern matching can be case sensitive.
	Pattern matching may or may not function properly with quick find (F3).
	 
To search for patterns, there are two special characters:

	*	Match zero or more characters
	?	Match any one character
	
For example typing in the Find box:
	*e
	  select every character from the current cursor position to the next 'e'
	  in the document.
	*
	  same effect as "select all" after current cursor position.
	*z*
	  selects the whole document after the cursor, if there is a 'z' anywhere
	c*e
	  find the next 'c' character and match every character until the following 'e'
	c?t
	  find the next 'c' character, match any one character and a 't'
	  eg: finds "cat" "cot" "cut"
	
Further considerations:
	Patterns searching can be slow in very large files
	Pattern searching may have unusual effects if multiple
	special charactes are clumped together, eg: **?*
	

Options > Font
Allows you to select font, point size, effects and color.
Changes will affect the entire document.

Options > Background Color
Allows you to select a color for the background.
Allows selection of up to 16 custom colors.
Click "Define Custom Colors >>" on the dialog to open selection interface. 

Options > Autosave
With this option selected, SavageEd will save the current
document without prompting upon quitting (including quitting
via ESC key).
If the document is untitled, SavageEd will create a temporary
file name having the form: "Untitledxxxxxxxx.txt" where
xxxxxxxx is a pseudo-random number.  This feature is active when
quitting or when selecting menu Save.


Options > Stay on Top
This option makes the SavageEd window a "top" window,
meaning it stays on top of other non-top windows.

Options > Read Only
Goes into readonly mode, no changes can be made to documents.
Save and SaveAs still function.

Options > Recent Files 
	>> Open In New Window
		Opens Recent files in new window.
 
	>> Clear On Exit
		Clears the files in the Recent menu on exit.
	 
	>> Open Most Recent
		Opens the most recently accessed document when SavageEd starts.

Options > Set Tabs...
	Opens a dialog, enter a new number for tab spacing in number of characters
	*warning* the program only checks for valid numbers, if you enter a crazy
	value, expect crazy results.
	Default tab spacing is 4 characters.

Options > Encrypt...
Options > Decrypt...

SavageEd offers an AES [Advanced Encryption Standard] encryption for documents.
To encrypt, enter a password up to 32 characters long
	For better security, enter a password that is 32 charactres long and varied with
	letters, numbers and symbols.
	More character may be entered, but only the first 32 will be considered for encryption
	*Do not forget the password*  If you lose the original document, there is no way
	to recover an encrypted file without the correct password.
	Encrypted files will be saved with the name of the current document and an ".enc"
	extension.
	SavageEd or kAES.exe is required to decrypt the file.  kAES.exe can be found on
	my site (see link below).
	
To decrypt, load an encrypted file (one that has an ".enc" extension) and select decrypt...
	Enter the correct password.
	The decrypted file will be saved with the name of the current file and a ".txt"
	extension.
	*if the original file is in the same directory, make sure to back it up first.*
	

Log files.
If you wish to use the log feature, it is compatible to the .LOG
feature of Notepad.exe, with an additional extension.

Type .LOG at the top of your document, on the first line, with
nothing else on that line.  From now on, anytime you open the
file with SavageEd, the current system date/time stamp is appended
to the bottom of the document.

Type .LOG< at the top of your document, on the first line, with
nothing else on that line.  From now on, anytime you open the
file with SavageEd, the current system date/time stamp is inserted
at the top of the document, just below the .LOG< .  So the most
recent updates will appear near the top of the document instead of
the bottom.

View -> Status Bar
Shows/hides the status bar
The status bar shows the following information:
1st section:
	current line number		'Ln:xx'
	current column number	'Col:xx'
	total number of lines	'Lines:xx'
2nd section:
	insert/overwrite mode 	'INS'/'OVR'
3rd section:
	readonly mode 			'R'


Printing
A simple printing interface is provided for convenience.  If a line is
too long to fit on a page, it is broken off directly and continued on 
the next line.

Recent Documents
A list of up to 20 recently opened files are stored in File > Recent menu.
The most recently accessed file will be at the top of the menu.
These files are saved from session to session.  To clear the recent menu,
use the menu Option "Clear Recent On Exit"


Kudos and Curses to:

sevag.krikorian@gmail.com
http://sevag.krikorian.gooblepages.com
